README.md, before:

# Speaker Diarization

This repository evaluates the [pyannote-audio](https://github.com/pyannote/pyannote-audio) diarization tool on an audio file.

| Table of Contents |
|---|
| [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)|
| [Usage Example](#usage-example) |
| [Calculate Performance Metrics](#calculate-performance-metrics) |
| [Citations](#citations) |

## Installation and Setup

### Hugging Face Setup
If you are not already logged into the Hugging Face CLI from your machine, you will need to provide a user token. To create and access your user token, follow the steps below:
1. Go to [Hugging Face's user token page](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens).
2. Create a new token.
3. Select the token type **Read**, enter a token name, and then create the token.
4. Copy the token into a text file.
5. Copy them contents of [templates/read_token_template.py](templates/read_token_template.py) into a new file `scripts/speaker_diarization/read_token.py`.
6. Edit the `token_loc` variable in the `read_token.py` script to point to the text file holding your token.

### Without Docker
Check your Python version:
```sh
python --version
```
Note that one of the packages, [sentencepiece](https://github.com/google/sentencepiece), does not support Python 3.13.1 yet. See [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/download/success) as an option to switch between Python versions.

Install requirements:
```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## With Docker
[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) is required for building and running the docker container. Docker version 24.0.6, build ed223bc was used to develop and test these scripts.

Run the necessary docker build and run commands provided in the `build_docker.sh` and `run_docker.sh` scripts. These .sh scripts were tested on Linux (CentOS 7).

```sh
./build_docker.sh
./run_docker.sh
```

The Docker commands included in the .sh scripts are:
```sh
docker build -t $docker_name .
## build the container image under the name 'docker_name' based on the Dockerfile specifications
docker run -v $(pwd):/scripts -it --rm --gpus all --name $container_name $docker_name bash
## run the built container image ('docker_name') under the container name ('container_name')
## mounts the current working directory $(pwd) as a volume to /scripts within the container
```

Please see Docker's documentation for more information ([docker build](https://docs.docker.com/build/), [Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/build/concepts/dockerfile/), [docker run](https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/container/run/)).

## Usage Example
See [main.main()](main.py) for usage examples. The `prep_and_diarize()` function takes in a Hugging Face token and a list of audio filepaths to diarize. For each file passed into `prep_and_diarize()`, there will be a resulting RTTM file and CSV.

```python
from pyannote_diarize import prep_and_diarize
from scripts.speaker_diarization.read_token import read_token
audio_list = [YOUR LIST]
prep_and_diarize(read_token(), audio_list)
```

Or to run our preset example, you could run:
```python
from main import main
main()
```

This would output four files: a CSV continaing speaker turns with timestamps and a RTTM file for each of the sample audio input files.

### Sample Input and Output Files
The sample hierarchy shows files created by running `main()` using Docker. Each of the input audio files results in a CSV and RTTM file with the same base name.

```
sample_files
├── short_wav
│   ├── first_ten_Sample_HV_Clip.csv
│   ├── first_ten_Sample_HV_Clip.rttm
│   ├── first_ten_Sample_HV_Clip.wav
│   ├── Sample_HV_Clip.csv
│   ├── Sample_HV_Clip.rttm
│   ├── Sample_HV_Clip.wav
```

#### CSV Columns
The CSV file summarizes the information found in the Rich Transcription Time Marked (RTTM) files. 

| Fieldname | Description |
|---|---|
| turn_onset | Timestamp of the start of the speaker turn. |
| turn_end | Timestamp of the end of the speaker turn. |
| turn_duration | Length of the speaker turn. |
| speaker_name | Assigned speaker name. |

## Calculate Performance Metrics
If you are not already logged into the Hugging Face CLI from your machine, you will need to provide a user token. See the steps described in the [setup above](#hugging-face-setup)

For more help, please see the official documentation [user tokens](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/security-tokens) or the [Hugging Face CLI](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/en/guides/cli).

If you are using Docker, you will need to mount the file containing the token. By default, the recommended docker run commands will mount your current working directory, which may include your token file. If not, you need to mount the folder or the specific file that has the token file `docker run -v path_to_token_dir:/entry/some_dir`. Update the path in `read_token.py` and re-run the container to mount:

```sh
./run_docker.sh
```

or:

```sh
docker run -v $(pwd):/scripts -it --rm --gpus all --name pyannote-diarize-ctr pyannote-diarize bash
```

This script uses the [VoxConverse v0.3 dataset](https://github.com/joonson/voxconverse), which contains a collection of multi-speaker audio .wav files and labeled RTTM files for comparision. To evaluate the diarization performance, run the commands below in the root of the repo (python3 may be needed instead of python, depending on the environment):

```sh
cd scripts/speaker_diarization
python export_voxconverse.py
python speaker_diarization_evaluate.py
```
The default settings in [speaker_diarization_evaluate.py](scripts/speaker_diarization/speaker_diarization_evaluate.py) will evaluate the first 10 files from the [VoxConverse v0.3 dev dataset](https://github.com/joonson/voxconverse/tree/master/dev) and write the results to the `scripts/speaker_diarization/results` folder. See `PYANNOTE.json` for a summary of each calculated error metric and `PYANNOTE.log` for a more detailed breakdown by file and error metric. The number of files can be changed by editing the `num_samples` variable in the `dataset_kwargs`. Two types of error are calculated: 
- [DiarizationErrorRate](https://pyannote.github.io/pyannote-metrics/_modules/pyannote/metrics/diarization.html#DiarizationErrorRate)
- [JaccardErrorRate](https://pyannote.github.io/pyannote-metrics/_modules/pyannote/metrics/diarization.html#JaccardErrorRate)

For more information on performance metrics with pyannote, please see [pyannote's metrics documentation](https://pyannote.github.io/pyannote-metrics/reference.html).


## Citations
```bibtex
@inproceedings{Plaquet23,
  author={Alexis Plaquet and Hervé Bredin},
  title={{Powerset multi-class cross entropy loss for neural speaker diarization}},
  year=2023,
  booktitle={Proc. INTERSPEECH 2023},
}
@inproceedings{Bredin23,
  author={Hervé Bredin},
  title={{pyannote.audio 2.1 speaker diarization pipeline: principle, benchmark, and recipe}},
  year=2023,
  booktitle={Proc. INTERSPEECH 2023},
}
@article{chung2020spot,
  title={Spot the conversation: speaker diarisation in the wild},
  author={Chung, Joon Son and Huh, Jaesung and Nagrani, Arsha and Afouras, Triantafyllos and Zisserman, Andrew},
  booktitle={Interspeech},
  year={2020}
}
```

Commit message:

added num_speakers as a kwarg to the pipeline and a reference to the full docs on the kwargs that can be given to the pipeline

README.md, after:

# Speaker Diarization

This repository evaluates the [pyannote-audio](https://github.com/pyannote/pyannote-audio) diarization tool on an audio file.

| Table of Contents |
|---|
| [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)|
| [Usage Example](#usage-example) |
| [Calculate Performance Metrics](#calculate-performance-metrics) |
| [Citations](#citations) |

## Installation and Setup

### Hugging Face Setup
If you are not already logged into the Hugging Face CLI from your machine, you will need to provide a user token. To create and access your user token, follow the steps below:
1. Go to [Hugging Face's user token page](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens).
2. Create a new token.
3. Select the token type **Read**, enter a token name, and then create the token.
4. Copy the token into a text file.
5. Copy them contents of [templates/read_token_template.py](templates/read_token_template.py) into a new file `scripts/speaker_diarization/read_token.py`.
6. Edit the `token_loc` variable in the `read_token.py` script to point to the text file holding your token.

### Without Docker
Check your Python version:
```sh
python --version
```
Note that one of the packages, [sentencepiece](https://github.com/google/sentencepiece), does not support Python 3.13.1 yet. See [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/download/success) as an option to switch between Python versions.

Install requirements:
```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## With Docker
[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) is required for building and running the docker container. Docker version 24.0.6, build ed223bc was used to develop and test these scripts.

Run the necessary docker build and run commands provided in the `build_docker.sh` and `run_docker.sh` scripts. These .sh scripts were tested on Linux (CentOS 7).

```sh
./build_docker.sh
./run_docker.sh
```

The Docker commands included in the .sh scripts are:
```sh
docker build -t $docker_name .
## build the container image under the name 'docker_name' based on the Dockerfile specifications
docker run -v $(pwd):/scripts -it --rm --gpus all --name $container_name $docker_name bash
## run the built container image ('docker_name') under the container name ('container_name')
## mounts the current working directory $(pwd) as a volume to /scripts within the container
```

Please see Docker's documentation for more information ([docker build](https://docs.docker.com/build/), [Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/build/concepts/dockerfile/), [docker run](https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/container/run/)).

## Usage Example
See [main.main()](main.py) for usage examples. The `prep_and_diarize()` function takes in a Hugging Face token and a list of audio filepaths to diarize. For each file passed into `prep_and_diarize()`, there will be a resulting RTTM file and CSV.

# Arguments
The `pyannote_diarize.prep_and_diarize()`  function takes in a Hugging Face token, a list of audio files, and a set of keyword arguments. The documentation of the full set of keyword arguments can be found [here](https://github.com/pyannote/pyannote-audio/blob/main/pyannote/audio/pipelines/speaker_diarization.py#L427).

| Keyword Argument | Type | Description | Default Value |
|---|---|---|---|
| num_speakers | 2 | The number of speakers to diarize the file by. | 2 |

```python
from pyannote_diarize import prep_and_diarize
from scripts.speaker_diarization.read_token import read_token
audio_list = [YOUR LIST]
kwargs = {'num_speakers': 2}
prep_and_diarize(read_token(), audio_list, **kwargs)
```

Or to run our preset example, you could run:
```python
from main import main
main()
```

This would output four files: a CSV containing speaker turns with timestamps and a RTTM file for each of the sample audio input files.

### Sample Input and Output Files
The sample hierarchy shows files created by running `main()` using Docker. Each of the input audio files results in a CSV and RTTM file with the same base name.

```
sample_files
├── short_wav
│   ├── first_ten_Sample_HV_Clip.csv
│   ├── first_ten_Sample_HV_Clip.rttm
│   ├── first_ten_Sample_HV_Clip.wav
│   ├── Sample_HV_Clip.csv
│   ├── Sample_HV_Clip.rttm
│   ├── Sample_HV_Clip.wav
```

#### CSV Columns
The CSV file summarizes the information found in the Rich Transcription Time Marked (RTTM) files. 

| Fieldname | Description |
|---|---|
| turn_onset | Timestamp of the start of the speaker turn. |
| turn_end | Timestamp of the end of the speaker turn. |
| turn_duration | Length of the speaker turn. |
| speaker_name | Assigned speaker name. |

## Calculate Performance Metrics
If you are not already logged into the Hugging Face CLI from your machine, you will need to provide a user token. See the steps described in the [setup above](#hugging-face-setup)

For more help, please see the official documentation [user tokens](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/security-tokens) or the [Hugging Face CLI](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/en/guides/cli).

If you are using Docker, you will need to mount the file containing the token. By default, the recommended docker run commands will mount your current working directory, which may include your token file. If not, you need to mount the folder or the specific file that has the token file `docker run -v path_to_token_dir:/entry/some_dir`. Update the path in `read_token.py` and re-run the container to mount:

```sh
./run_docker.sh
```

or:

```sh
docker run -v $(pwd):/scripts -it --rm --gpus all --name pyannote-diarize-ctr pyannote-diarize bash
```

This script uses the [VoxConverse v0.3 dataset](https://github.com/joonson/voxconverse), which contains a collection of multi-speaker audio .wav files and labeled RTTM files for comparision. To evaluate the diarization performance, run the commands below in the root of the repo (python3 may be needed instead of python, depending on the environment):

```sh
cd scripts/speaker_diarization
python export_voxconverse.py
python speaker_diarization_evaluate.py
```
The default settings in [speaker_diarization_evaluate.py](scripts/speaker_diarization/speaker_diarization_evaluate.py) will evaluate the first 10 files from the [VoxConverse v0.3 dev dataset](https://github.com/joonson/voxconverse/tree/master/dev) and write the results to the `scripts/speaker_diarization/results` folder. See `PYANNOTE.json` for a summary of each calculated error metric and `PYANNOTE.log` for a more detailed breakdown by file and error metric. The number of files can be changed by editing the `num_samples` variable in the `dataset_kwargs`. Two types of error are calculated: 
- [DiarizationErrorRate](https://pyannote.github.io/pyannote-metrics/_modules/pyannote/metrics/diarization.html#DiarizationErrorRate)
- [JaccardErrorRate](https://pyannote.github.io/pyannote-metrics/_modules/pyannote/metrics/diarization.html#JaccardErrorRate)

For more information on performance metrics with pyannote, please see [pyannote's metrics documentation](https://pyannote.github.io/pyannote-metrics/reference.html).


## Citations
```bibtex
@inproceedings{Plaquet23,
  author={Alexis Plaquet and Hervé Bredin},
  title={{Powerset multi-class cross entropy loss for neural speaker diarization}},
  year=2023,
  booktitle={Proc. INTERSPEECH 2023},
}
@inproceedings{Bredin23,
  author={Hervé Bredin},
  title={{pyannote.audio 2.1 speaker diarization pipeline: principle, benchmark, and recipe}},
  year=2023,
  booktitle={Proc. INTERSPEECH 2023},
}
@article{chung2020spot,
  title={Spot the conversation: speaker diarisation in the wild},
  author={Chung, Joon Son and Huh, Jaesung and Nagrani, Arsha and Afouras, Triantafyllos and Zisserman, Andrew},
  booktitle={Interspeech},
  year={2020}
}
```
